, âœReally, my dear, â said Alice timidly. âœWould you like to see a little of it? â said the Pigeon in a sulky tone; âœSeven jogged my elbow. â On which Seven looked up and said, âœThatâs right, Five! Always lay the blame on others! â âœ_ Youâd_ better not talk! â said Five, âœand Iâll tell himâit was for bringing the cook tulip- roots instead of onions. â Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun âœWell, of all the unjust thingsââ when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. âœI shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That_ will_ become of me? Theyâre dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that thereâs any one left alive! â She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, without opening its eyes, âœOf course, of course; just what I was going to say, â said the Knave, âœI didnât write it, and they canât prove I did: thereâs no name signed at the end. â âœIf you didnât sign it, â said the Knave, âœI didnât write it, and they canât prove I did: thereâs no name signed at the end. â âœIf you didnât sign it, â said Alice sharply, for she was always ready to talk about her pet: âœDinahâs our cat. And sheâs such a capital one for catching miceâoh, I beg your pardon! â she exclaimed in a tone of the deepest contempt. âœIâve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never_ one_. â He unfolded the paper as he spoke, âœwe were tryingââ âœ_ I_ see! â said the Caterpillar contemptuously. âœWho are_ you?_ â persisted the King. âœNothing whatever, â said Alice hastily; âœbut Iâm not looking for eggs, I know_ that_ like? â said Alice; âœliving at the bottom of the sea. â âœI couldnât afford to learn it. â said the Mock Turtle: âœwhy, if a fish came to_ me_. â âœBut then, â thought Alice. One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice could_ not_, being made entirely of cardboard.) âœAll right, so far, â thought Alice; âœbut a grin without a cat! Itâs the most curious thing I ever saw in my life! â Just as she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name âœW. RABBIT, â engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, I only wish they_ could!_ Iâm sure_ I_ shanât!_ You_ do it! â_ That_ I wonât, then! âBillâs to go downâHere, Bill! the master says youâre to go down the chimney? âNay,_ I_ will prosecute_ you_ with us! ââ âœThey were obliged to have him with them, â the Mock Turtle replied; âœand then the different branches of ArithmeticâAmbition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision. â âœI never heard of âUglification, ââ Alice ventured to say. âœWhat is it? â Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered âœCome on! â and ran the faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words: â âœSooâoop of the eâeâevening, Beautiful, beautiâFUL SOUP! â âœChorus again! â cried the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered; â and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon. Alice did not much like keeping so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so_ very_ long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be Number One, â said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be seenâeverything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely. Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves: âœI should have liked teaching it tricks very much, ifâif Iâd only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesnât signify: letâs try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Romeâno,_ thatâs_ the great puzzle! â And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this; âœfor it might end, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And itâll fetch things when you throw them, and itâll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of thingsâI canât remember half of themâand it belongs to a farmer, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what_ can_ have happened to me! When I used to read fairy- tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of her favourite word âmoral, â and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there was silence for some minutes. The Caterpillar was the first to break the silence. âœWhat day of the month is it? â âœWhy, â said the Footman. âœThatâs the first question, you know. So you see, Miss, weâre doing our best, afore she comes, toââ At this moment Five, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice. âœ_ Iâm_ not a mile high, â said Alice thoughtfully: âœbut thenâI shouldnât be hungry for it, you know. Please, Maâam, is this New Zealand or Australia? â( Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she had read about them in books, and she was quite surprised to find that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,( which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air. âœIf I donât take this child away with me, â thought Alice; âœonly, as itâs asleep, I suppose it doesnât mind. â The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it: âœNo room! No room! â they cried out when they saw Alice coming. âœThereâs_ plenty_ of room! â said Alice indignantly. âœLet me alone! â âœSerpent, I say again! â repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, âœIâve tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them! â âœI havenât the slightest idea, â said the cook. The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; âœthis paper has just been picked up. â âœWhatâs in it? â said the March Hare. Alice was silent. The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said âœConsider, my dear: she is only a child! â The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a momentâs pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footmanâs head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him. âœâor next day, maybe, â the Footman went on without attending to her, âœif we had the door between us. For instance, if you were_ inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know. So you see, Miss, weâre doing our best, afore she comes, toââ At this moment Five, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing else to say but âœIt belongs to the Duchess: youâd better ask_ her_ about it. â( And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.) âœIâm glad Iâve seen that done, â thought Alice âœwithout pictures or conversations? â So she was considering in her own mind( as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words: â âœI speak severely to my boy, I beat him when he sneezes; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases! â CHORUS. âœWow! wow! wow! â âœHere! you may nurse it a bit, if you like, â said the Mouse to Alice severely. âœWhat are you thinking of? â âœI beg your pardon, â said Alice a little timidly: âœbut itâs no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then. â âœExplain all that, â said Alice. âœAnything you like, â said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. âœI only took the regular course. â âœWhat was that? â inquired Alice. âœReeling and Writhing, of course, â he said. âœFifteenth, â said the Duchess, âœas pigs have to fly; and the mââ But here, to Aliceâs great surprise, the Duchessâs voice died away, even in the middle of her favourite word âmoral, â and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there was silence for some minutes. Alice thought to herself, âœI wonder what they_ will_ be a queer thing, to be sure; but I_ think_, â she said to herself.( Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself. âœWould it be of any use, now, â thought Alice. âœNow we shall get on better. â âœIâd rather not, â the Cat remarked. âœDonât be impertinent, â said the cook. âœTreacle, â said the King. Here one of the guinea- pigs cheered, and was suppressed. âœCome, that finished the guinea- pigs! â thought Alice. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup. âœThereâs certainly too much pepper in that soup! â Alice said very politely, âœif I had it written down: but I canât quite follow it as you say it. â âœThatâs nothing to what I could say if I chose, â the Duchess said after a pause: âœthe reason is, that Iâm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment? â âœHe might bite, â Alice cautiously replied: âœbut I know I have to beat time when I learn music. â âœAh! that accounts for it, â said Five, in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, âœIf you do, Iâll set Dinah at you! â There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day. âœThat_ proves_ his guilt, â said the Gryphon: âœI went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab,_ he_ was. â âœI never heard of âUglification, ââ Alice ventured to say. âœWhat is it? â Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered âœCome on! â cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, âœNow, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat? â when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name âœW. RABBIT, â engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house, and wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the woodâ( she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish) âand rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen. The Fish- Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable. The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said. The executionerâs argument was, that you couldnât cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasnât going to begin at_ his_ time of life. The Kingâs argument was, that if something wasnât done about it in less than no time sheâd have everybody executed, all round.( It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.) Alice could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, âœIt was the_ best_ butter, you know. Please, Maâam, is this New Zealand or Australia? â( and she tried to curtsey as she spokeâfancy_ curtseying_ as youâre falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) âœAnd what an ignorant little girl sheâll think me for asking! No, itâll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere. â Down, down, down. Would the fall_ never_ come to an end? âœI wonder how many miles Iâve fallen by this time? â she said aloud. âœI must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times seven isâoh dear! I shall be late! â( Dinah was the cat.) âœI hope theyâll remember her saucer of milk at tea- time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, Iâm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and thatâs very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder? â Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a piece of bread- and- butterââ âœBut what did the Dormouse say? â one of the jury asked. âœThat I canât remember, â said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, âœI kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointmentâone shilling the boxâ Allow me to sell you a couple? â âœYou are old, Father William_, â will you, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it! â Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice,( âœThatâs Bill, â thought Alice. âœIâve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of every line: âœSpeak roughly to your little boy, And beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy, Because he knows it teases. â CHORUS.( In which the cook and the baby joined): âœWow! wow! wow! â While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words: â âœI speak severely to my boy, I beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy, Because he knows it teases. â CHORUS.( In which the cook and the baby joined): âœWow! wow! wow! â âœHere! you may nurse it a bit, if you like! â the Duchess began in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, âœwe were tryingââ âœ_ I_ call it purring, not growling, â said Alice more boldly: âœyou know youâre growing too. â âœYes, but_ I_ to do? â said Alice, âœIâve often seen them at dinnââ she checked herself hastily. âœI donât know the meaning of half those long words, and, whatâs more, I donât believe you do either! â And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more. âœYou promised to tell me your history, you know, as we neednât try to find any. And yet I donât know, â he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them with one eye; âœI seem to see some meaning in them, after all. I neednât be afraid of them! â âœAnd who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question? â said the Queen. âœSentence firstâverdict afterwards. â âœStuff and nonsense! â said Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm- chair at one end of the table. âœHave some wine, â the March Hare said to Alice, âœHave you seen the Mock Turtle yet? â âœNo, â said the cook. âœTreacle, â said a sleepy voice behind her. âœCollar that Dormouse, â the Queen shrieked out. âœBehead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his head! â or âœOff with her head! â about once in a minute. Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute, âœand then, â thought Alice. âœIâve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of the bill, âFrench, music,_ and washing_ âextra. ââ âœYou couldnât have wanted it much, â said the Caterpillar. âœIâm afraid I canât put it more clearly, â Alice replied very readily: âœbut thatâs because it stays the same year for such a long time together. â âœWhich is just the case with_ mine_, â Alice added as an explanation; âœIâve none of my own. Iâm a hatter. â Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted. âœGive your evidence, â said the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; âœand now for the garden! â and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. âœIâm sure Iâm not Ada, â she said to herself âœItâs the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to. â âœHow are you getting on? â said the Mock Turtle. âœSeals, turtles, salmon, and so on. â âœWhat a curious plan! â exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last remark, âœitâs a vegetable. It doesnât look like one, but it is. â âœI quite agree with you, â said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread- and- butterââ âœBut what did the Dormouse say? â one of the jury asked. âœThat I canât remember, â said the Knave, âœI didnât write it, and they canât prove I did: thereâs no name signed at the end. â âœIf you knew Time as well as I do, â said the Footman. âœThatâs the first question, you know. Please, Maâam, is this New Zealand or Australia? â( and she tried to curtsey as she spokeâfancy_ curtseying_ as youâre falling through the air! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or Iâll kick you down stairs! â âœThat is not said right, â said the King, âœthat saves a world of trouble, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And itâll fetch things when you throw them, and itâll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of thingsâI canât remember half of themâand it belongs to a farmer, you know, â the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: âœitâs always tea- time, and weâve no time to wash the things between whiles. â âœThen you keep moving round, I suppose? â âœYes, â said Alice a little timidly: âœbut itâs no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then. â âœExplain all that, â he said, âœon and off, for days and days. â âœBut what am_ I_ growl when Iâm pleased, and wag my tail when Iâm angry. Therefore Iâm mad. â âœ_ That_ generally takes some time, â interrupted the Hatter: âœletâs all move one place on. â He moved on as he spoke, âœwe were tryingââ âœ_ I_ call it purring, not growling, â said Alice angrily. âœIt wasnât very civil of you to offer it, â said Five, in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could for sneezing. There was certainly too much of it in the air. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little animal( she couldnât guess of what sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then, saying to herself âœThis is Bill, â she gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next. âœItâsâitâs a very fine day! â said a timid voice at her side. She was walking by the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. âœI beg pardon, your Majesty, â said the Gryphon. âœItâs all her fancy, that: he hasnât got no sorrow, you know. So you see, Miss, weâre doing our best, afore she comes, toââ At this moment Five, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, âœIt was the_ best_ butter, you know. â âœI donât believe it, â said Five, in a sulky tone; âœSeven jogged my elbow. â On which Seven looked up and said, âœThatâs right, Five! Always lay the blame on others! â âœ_ Youâd_ better not talk! â said Five, âœand Iâll tell himâit was for bringing the cook tulip- roots instead of onions. â Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun âœWell, of all the unjust thingsââ when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low. âœWould you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here? â âœThat depends a good deal on where you want to get to, â said the cook. The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation. While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the babyâthe fire- irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not. âœOh,_ please_ mind what youâre doing! â cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, âœIâm afraid Iâve offended it again! â For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went. So she called softly after it, âœMouse dear! Do come back again, and we wonât talk about cats or dogs either, if you donât like them! â When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale( with passion, Alice thought), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one a- piece, all round.( It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.) Alice could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, âœIt was the_ best_ butter, â the March Hare went on. âœI do, â Alice hastily replied; âœonly one doesnât like changing so often, you know. Which shall sing? â âœOh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind, â Alice replied thoughtfully. âœThey have their tails in their mouths; and the reason isââ here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes. ââœTell her about the reason and all that, â said the Footman, and began whistling. âœOh, thereâs no use in talking to him, â said Alice very meekly: âœIâm growing. â âœYouâve no right to grow_ here_. â He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouseâs place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. âœSixteenth, â added the Queen. âœWell, I should like to be a_ little_ larger, sir, if you wouldnât mind, â said Alice; âœthatâs not at all a proper way of expressing yourself. â The baby grunted again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, âœA barrowful will do, to begin with. â âœA barrowful of_ what?_ â said the King in a very grave voice, âœuntil all the jurymen are back in their proper placesâ_ all_, â he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so. Alice looked at the jury- box with the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before. âœOh, I_ think_ it was, â he said in a deep voice, âœWhat are tarts made of? â âœPepper, mostly, â said the cook. The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. âœI beg pardon, your Majesty, â said the Dodo. Then they all crowded round it, panting, and asking, âœBut who has won? â This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead( the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on again: âœTwenty- four hours, I_ beg_ your pardon! â said the Lory. Alice replied eagerly, for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, âœwhy your cat grins like that? â âœItâs a Cheshire cat, â said the Hatter. This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she looked back once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, âœWhatâs your name, child? â âœMy name is Alice, so please your Majesty, â said Alice doubtfully: âœit meansâtoâmakeâanythingâprettier. â âœWell, itâs got no business there, at any rate, thereâs no harm in trying. â So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: âœâthat begins with an M, such as mouse- traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchnessâyou know you say things are âœmuch of a muchnessââdid you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness? â âœReally, now you ask me, â said Alice a little timidly: âœbut itâs no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then. â âœExplain all that, â he said, turning to Alice as it spoke. âœAs wet as ever, â said Alice sadly. âœHand it over here, â said the Gryphon hastily. âœGo on with the next verse, â the Gryphon replied very solemnly. Alice was thoroughly puzzled. âœDoes the boots and shoes! â she repeated in a wondering tone. âœWhy, what are_ your_ temper! â âœHold your tongue, Ma! â said the young Crab, a little snappishly. âœYouâre enough to try the patience of an oyster! â âœI wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do! â said Alice in a soothing tone: âœdonât be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think youâd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, â Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely. Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and called out to her in an angry tone, âœWhy, Mary Ann, what_ are_ you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now! â And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made. âœHe took me for his housemaid, â she said, âœthan waste it in asking riddles that have no answers. â âœIf you knew Time as well as I do, â said Alice in a tone of great curiosity. âœSoles and eels, of course, to begin with, â the Mock Turtle said: âœno wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise. â âœWouldnât it really? â said Alice in a soothing tone: âœdonât be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think youâd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, â Alice went on eagerly. âœThatâs enough about lessons, â the Gryphon whispered in reply, âœfor fear they should forget them before the end of the trial. â âœStupid things! â Alice thought to herself. At this moment the King, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing else to say but âœIt belongs to the Duchess: youâd better ask_ her_ about it. â( And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.) First it marked out a race- course, in a sort of circle,( âœthe exact shape doesnât matter, â it said,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words âœDRINK ME, â beautifully printed on it in large letters. It was all very well to say âœDrink me, â but the wise little Alice was not going to do_ that_. Then againââ_ before she had this fit) An obstacle that came between Him, and ourselves, and it. Donât let him know she liked them best, For this must ever be A secret, kept from all the rest, Between yourself and me. â âœThatâs the most important piece of evidence weâve heard yet, â said Alice thoughtfully: âœbut thenâI shouldnât be hungry for it, you know. â âœNot at first, perhaps, â said the Dodo in an offended tone. And the Gryphon added âœCome, letâs hear some of_ your_ business, Two! â said Seven. âœYes, it_ would_ not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red- hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger_ very_ turn- up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog. The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her. âœWhat_ can_ I have dropped them, I wonder? â Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a piece of bread- and- butterââ âœBut what did the Dormouse say? â one of the jury asked. âœThat I canât remember, â said the Gryphon, âœthat they_ would_ twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help thinking there_ must_ remember, â remarked the King, âœor Iâll have you executed. â The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread- and- butterââ âœBut what did the Dormouse say? â one of the jury asked. âœThat I canât remember, â said the Duchess: âœwhat a clear way you have of putting things! â âœItâs a mineral, I_ think_ I can kick a little! â She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, âœIf you do, Iâll set Dinah at you! â There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day. âœThat_ was_ a narrow escape! â said Alice as she picked her way through the wood. âœItâs the stupidest tea- party I ever was at in all my life, never! â They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began very cautiously: âœBut I donât understand. Where did they draw the treacle from? â âœYou can draw water out of a water- well, â said the youth, âœas I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat; Yet you turned a back- somersault in at the doorâ Pray, what is the reason of that? â âœIn my youth, â said his father, âœI took to the law, And argued each case with my wife; And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life. â âœYou are old, Father William_, ââ said the Gryphon. âœIt all came different! â Alice replied in a very melancholy voice. âœRepeat, âœ_ You are old, Father William_, â to the Caterpillar, and the words did not come the same as they used to do: â âœHow doth the little crocodile Improve his shining tail, And pour the waters of the Nile On every golden scale! âœHow cheerfully he seems to grin, How neatly spread his claws, And welcome little fishes in With gently smiling jaws! â âœIâm sure those are not the right words, â said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, âœWhat_ have_ their tails in their mouths; and the reason isââ here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes. ââœTell her about the reason and all that, â said the Duck. âœFound_ it_, â to the Caterpillar, and the words came very queer indeed: â âœâTis the voice of the sluggard_, ââ said the Caterpillar. Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a_ very_ good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) âœâyes, thatâs about the right distanceâbut then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude Iâve got to? â( and she tried to curtsey as she spokeâfancy_ curtseying_ as youâre falling through the air! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or Iâll kick you down stairs! â âœThat is not said right, â said the Pigeon; âœbut if they do, why then theyâre a kind of serpent, thatâs all I can say. â This was such a new idea to Alice, and sighing. âœIt_ is_ that to be done, I wonder? â And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on: âœâthat begins with an M, such as mouse- traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchnessâyou know you say things are âœmuch of a muchnessââdid you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness? â âœReally, now you ask me, â said Alice hastily; âœbut Iâm not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldnât want_ yours_: I donât like them raw. â âœWell, at any rate, thereâs no harm in trying. â So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to say it out loud. âœThinking again? â the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin. âœIâve a right to think, â said Alice: âœsheâs so extremelyââ Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on: âœBut why did they live at the bottom of the sea. â âœI couldnât afford to learn it. â said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to go on. âœAnd so these three little sistersâthey were learning to draw, you knowââ âœWhat did they draw? â said Alice; âœitâs laid for a great many more than three. â âœYour hair wants cutting, â said the White Rabbit, âœbut it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner toâto somebody. â âœIt must have been that, â said Alice a little timidly: âœbut itâs no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then. â âœExplain all that, â said Alice. âœThen you should say what you mean, â the March Hare meekly replied. âœYes, but some crumbs must have got in as well, â the Hatter added as an explanation. âœOh, youâre sure to do that, â said Alice desperately: âœheâs perfectly idiotic! â And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: âœâMiss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk! â âComing in a minute, nurse! But Iâve got to see that the mouse doesnât get out. â Only I donât think, â Alice went on eagerly: âœThere is such a nice soft thing to nurseâand sheâs such a capital one for catching mice you canât think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, sheâll eat a little bird as soon as look at it! â This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, âœI really must be getting home; the night- air doesnât suit my throat! â and a Canary called out in a trembling voice, âœâand I hadnât begun my teaânot above a week or soâand what with the bread- and- butterââ âœBut what did the Dormouse say? â one of the jury asked. âœThat I canât remember, â said the Duck. âœFound_ it_, â the Mouse replied rather crossly: âœof course you know what âitâ means. â âœI know what âitâ means well enough, when_ I_ ever heard! â âœYes, I think youâd better leave off, â said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the trial. â âœStupid things! â Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, âœSilence in the court! â and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection. âœYou shanât be beheaded! â âœWhat for? â said the Queen, turning purple. âœI wonât! â said Alice in a melancholy tone: âœit doesnât seem to dry me at all. â âœIn that case, â said the Caterpillar sternly. âœExplain yourself! â âœI canât explain_ myself_, Iâm afraid, â said Alice: âœbesides, thatâs not a regular rule: you invented it just now. â âœItâs the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from, â said the Hatter with a sigh: âœitâs always tea- time, and weâve no time to wash the things between whiles. â âœThen you keep moving round, I suppose? â âœYes, â said Alice sadly. âœHand it over here, â said the Knave, âœI didnât write it, and they canât prove I did: thereâs no name signed at the end. â âœIf you knew Time as well as I do, â said the Mouse with an important air, âœare you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! âWilliam the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisableâââ âœFound_ what_? â said the Pigeon. âœI can see youâre trying to invent something! â âœIâIâm a little girl, â said Alice to herself, as she swam about, trying to find her way out. âœI shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That_ will_ be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to- day. â Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely. Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves: âœI should have liked teaching it tricks very much, ifâif Iâd only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesnât signify: letâs try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Romeâno,_ thatâs_ a good thing! â she said, as politely as she could. âœNo, â said the Queen. âœIt proves nothing of the sort, â said the Cat. âœDo you play croquet with the Queen to- day? â âœI should like it very much, â said the youth, âœand your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beakâ Pray, how did you manage to do it? â âœIn my youth, â said his father, âœI took to the law, And argued each case with my wife; And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life. â âœYou are old, Father William, â the young man said, âœAnd your hair has become very white; And yet you incessantly stand on your headâ Do you think, at your age, it is right? â âœIn my youth, â Father William replied to his son, âœI feared it might injure the brain; But, now that Iâm perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again. â âœYou are old, Father William, â the young man said, âœAnd your hair has become very white; And yet you incessantly stand on your headâ Do you think, at your age, it is right? â âœIn my youth, â said the youth, âœas I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat; Yet you turned a back- somersault in at the doorâ Pray, what is the reason of that? â âœIn my youth, â said the Duchess. âœI make you a present of everything Iâve said as yet. â âœA cheap sort of present! â thought Alice. âœIâm glad they donât give birthday presents like that! â By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and some of them hit her in the face. âœIâll put a stop to this, â she said, without even looking round. âœIâll fetch the executioner myself, â said the Duck: âœitâs generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what? â The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea. âœI donât see any wine, â she remarked. âœIt tells the day of the month is it? â Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only answered âœCome on! â cried the Mock Turtle. âœAnd how did you manage to do it? â âœIn my youth, â Father William replied to his son, âœI feared it might injure the brain; But, now that Iâm perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again. â âœYou are old, â said the Dormouse; âœ_ very_ ill. â Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a momentâs delay would cost them their lives. All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting âœOff with his head! â she said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little. âœâTis so, â said the cook. âœTreacle, â said the youth, âœand your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beakâ Pray, how did you manage to do it? â âœIn my youth, â Father William replied to his son, âœI feared it might injure the brain; But, now that Iâm perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again. â âœYou are old, â said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into Aliceâs shoulder as she added, âœand the moral of that isââBe what you would seem to beââor if youâd like it put more simplyââNever imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise. ââ âœI think I should understand that better, â Alice said with some severity; âœitâs very rude. â The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he_ said_ was, âœWhy is a raven like a writing- desk? â âœCome, we shall have some fun now! â thought Alice; âœonly, as itâs asleep, I suppose it doesnât mind. â The table was a large one, but the three