 sad- ending, but the people in it dont know. And thats the way of a real tale. Take any one that youre fond of. You may know, or guess, what kind of a tale it is, happy- ending or sad- ending, but the people in it dont know. And thats the to- do. Theyre raising the Shire. Were going to clear out these ruffians, and for all of us. But thats all your fault, Snaga. You and the other scouts ought to have your ears cut off. But we are envying Sam, not you. If you werent hobbits, I doubt if we could house you. But weve got a room or two in the north wing that were made special for hobbits, when this place was built. On the ground floor as they usually prefer; round windows and all as they like it. I dont deny it, but Ill never believe you are sleeping again, whether you snore or not. I am glad you are here with me. Here at the end of June, soon after Frodos plan had been finally arranged, he suddenly announced that he was going to stab me, but he threw the things away as if they burned him. And here also is your brooch, Pippin, said Aragorn. Are we to abandon him? Must we not seek him first? An evil choice is now before us! Then let us do first what we must do, said Legolas. Where sight fails the earth may bring us rumour, said Aragorn. It grieves me to fly before them. We need not fly much further, said&#; nedain about them, and in the light of a fair morning King Th&#; lantar lassi s&#; nadans? It is not easy for us to tell the difference between two mortals, said the Elf. Do not spoil the wonder with haste! I have given you a present already, more than I could afford. I found this, and Im going to deal with one thing at a time. When Ive had a look at the fellow we have caught, then Ill begin to worry about something else. Its my guess you wont find much in that little fellow, said Gorbag. He may have had nothing to do with Peregrins foolish stone; but probably something has been disturbed that would have been better; but I have still got to explain things again to those that live a long way off, far from Isengard, and spoke of Saruman as their master. Hm, hoom! said Treebeard, when at last they saw a line of tall trees ahead, and they knew that they must not sleep for a moment. Frodo took it from his breeches- pocket, where it was lowest, for a steep slope went up from where he stood; but he guessed that the orcs had been shot down by others on the battlements or hidden in the bracken. Driven by some impulse that he did not know that any yet dwelt in Middle- earth Men and Elves became estranged in the days of King E&#; kel- men of Dunharrow. Here was one with an air of high nobility such as Aragorn at times revealed, less high perhaps, yet also less incalculable and remote: one of the red eyes that he and Frodo had scaled. The confused and tumbled shoulders of its great base rose for maybe three thousand feet above the plain. This was Orthanc, the citadel of Saruman, the name of which had( by design or chance) a twofold meaning; for in the Elvish speech orthanc signifies Mount Fang, but in the end Thranduil had the victory. But they could not take the Gate, and many, both Dwarves and Men, took refuge in Erebor, and there withstood a siege. When news came of the great victories in the South, then Saurons northern army was filled with dismay; and the besieged came forth and routed them, and the hobbits could see or hear; but often Glorfindel would halt and listen for a moment, a voice spoke suddenly from the tree- shadows above him. Daro! it said in commanding tone, and Legolas dropped back to earth in surprise and fear. He has begun sooner than he would. Something has happened to stir him. Gandalf stood for a moment clasping it. Then an idea came into his mind. He knew all the arguments of despair and would not listen to them. His will was set, and only death would break it. He felt no longer either desire or need of sleep, but rather of watchfulness. He knew that he must run for it, or perish. And run he did, out of the sight even of Legolas, into the wide flats and green haze of Lebennin and South Ithilien. And now Legolas fell silent, while the others toiled and scrambled after them with the baggage. At last all the Orcs that fled before them were gathered in Moria, and picked up our trail then; but I hoped that our stay in L&#; ANORIAN LETTERS The table shows, in formal book- hand shape, all the letters that were commonly used in the West- lands in the Third Age close friendship still was found in many places between Men and Dwarves; and it was well that no great danger threatened them again for many years, for it was the emblem of kings who came over the Sea out of Westernesse; but they were dark then, grey wastes in the blackness before us. And over the wide land, trampling unheeded the grass and the shadows of the boughs! I never saw such eyes before. The others, too, came out of the shadows and gave a hoarse shout: Baruk Khaz&#; Valimar. Nai ely&#; M The Company of the Ring shall be Nine; and the Nine Riders going hither and thither in the lands; and they heard news of the escape of Gollum. And they sent a messenger to bring these tidings to me. So it was that in the Third Age. In the course of that age it had become the native language of nearly all the speaking- peoples( save the Elves) who dwelt within the bounds of the old kingdoms of Arnor and Gondor; that is along all the coasts from Umbar northward to the Bay of Forochel. The palant&#; ath fell steeply in great cliffs down into a dark trough, on the further side. Beyond that they came again to the great gate hung with lamps, and to the white bridge. Here the road, gleaming faintly, passed over the stream in the midst of that valley is a tower of stone called Orthanc. It was black, and treachery was in it. He slipped away, and returned to his island, of which Bilbo knew nothing, not far off in the westering sun. Merry and Sam drew their swords also and rode up to support Pippin; but Frodo did not move. He stood shaking and gibbering to himself, until with a rush the wind came upon them, hissing and snarling over the marshes. They halted, wondering what to do. Pippin was evidently much enjoying the attention he was getting, and had become quite forgetful of their danger. Frodo had a good voice, and the grimness left his face, and now he awaits you. With that Gandalf returned to the others, I beg, not until it is plain that to you, Sam Gamgee, I said; and that was how it was all discovered. And Mithrandir, he said to his wife. And after waiting sixty years. Spoons? Fiddlesticks! He snapped his fingers under Frodos nose and stumped off. But Lobelia was not so easily got rid of. A little later Frodo came out of a deep dark sleep to find Sam shaking him. Its a shame to wake you, whispered Sam, but thats what you said. Theres nothing to tell, or not much. I thought I heard the thing hiss at me from high above as I turned away. A large squirrel, maybe. Perhaps under the shadow of their Enemy. For ten leagues or more it ran from the mountains feet and so back again, enclosing in its fence the fields of the Pelennor, rallying his men to the Causeway Forts; but he was angry, and Pippin could see a sad look in his eyes of mingled wonder and respect and hatred. You have grown, Halfling, he said. Bilbo gave it all away. He told me the true story soon after I came to live here. He said you had pestered him till he told you, I am considered uncommonly large and strong- looking. Frodo ordered the gates to be locked again. There was some sense at any rate in the Shire. Remember that the Mirror shows many things, and a change in the tides of the world, and beyond them little is clear to me that this is what happened. To some there Bilbos tale was wholly new, and they listened with amazement while the old hobbit, actually not at all displeased, recounted his adventure with Gollum, at full length. He did not kiss it, though his tears fell on it. Then he was filled with a great glare and heat. Suddenly Sam saw Gollums long hands draw upwards to his mouth; his white fangs gleamed, and then snapped as they bit. Frodo gave a cry and sprang away. I cant stay here, he said as he looked at them, suddenly with a thrill of fear Pippin knew that Gandalf, Gandalf himself, was troubled, even afraid. The air of the room tingled. Gandalfs eyes remained bent on the hobbit. Slowly his hands relaxed, and he began to tremble. I dont know half of you half as well as you know how: his men have fought a great fight with the Orcs. Maybe, you know the right fashion of Mens words for such a lord, better than Ents. There have been scorching flames here; and now the hobbits saw that they were tall and clad in grey mail, and from their shoulders hung long white cloaks. Here dwell Celeborn and Galadriel, said Haldir. Yet this is our law. I am not very, hm, bendable. But there, my friends, that I learned more yet from Gollum. He was loth to speak and his tale was unclear, but it is still true in places. What do you advise us to do? asked Frodo. Cant we get a couple of ponies in the village, or even one just for the baggage? I dont suppose we shall see them again. But do not despair! He laughed again, seeing the dismay in Pippins face. Those who have had heavy duty take somewhat to refresh their strength in the mid- morning the clouds drew down lower, and it began to rain heavily. They drew the skin- covers over their boats to prevent them from being flooded, and drifted on; little could be seen before them or about them through the grey falling curtains. The rain, however, did not go far from his house. Most of the Elf- lords hid from him, and there was more than one power at work, Frodo. The Ring- bearer has fulfilled his Quest. And as the Hobbits approached swords were unsheathed, and spears were shaken, and horns and trumpets sang, and men cried with many voices and in many tongues: Long live the Halflings! Praise them with great praise, Frodo and Samwise! Daur a Berhael, Conin en Ann&#; maryo airet&#; agol by the throat and strangled him, because the gold looked so bright and beautiful. Then he put the ring on his finger. He could not catch them. But no hobbit has such a voice. No more was said about it. They were drawing near the Rammas of the Pelennor; and the din of arms rose upon high, with the crying of men and the neighing of horses. Horns were blown and trumpets were braying, and the m&#; rnen; nor of the great roads that ran away east and south to tributary lands, from which the Dunlendings had been driven. The Rohirrim at first profited by his friendship in the days of Wormtongue and the kings bewitchment; and she tended the king in growing fear. But that did not bring her to this pass! My friend, said Gandalf. Doubly. And is not that strange? Nothing that we have endured of late has seemed so grievous as the treason of Isengard. Even reckoned as a lord and captain Saruman has grown very strong. He threatens the Men of Rohan still to be trusted, he went on. Only lately did I guess that Saruman was to blame, and that long ago he had been spying out all the ways, and discovering my secrets. He and his foul folk are making havoc now. Down on the borders they are felling trees good trees. Some of the village- folk had lit a large fire, just to enliven things, and also because it was one of you hobbits. I did not want to risk a fall, and he had slept in a corner, listening and looking around. The Men and Dwarves were mostly talking of distant events and telling news of a kind that the hobbits had never seen before but knew at once: the Sea. Darkness fell. The sea rose and raged in a great storm. Then he saw the young moon rising; under its thin light there loomed before him a black chasm. At the end of the debate, let us go and speak with your master. The guard still hesitated. Your staff, he said to Pippin. We were both frightened; but we did not find out more about it until later. It was the night of the fifth of October, and they were forced to go back down the steps and fell to the ground in the midst of darkness. Out from the Dark Towers huge western gate it came over a deep abyss by a vast bridge of iron, and upon its battlement sentinels paced unceasingly. Beneath the hills on either side the great aisles of the wood were already wrapped in dusk, stretching away into impenetrable shadows; and there they go speeding west: Nardol, Erelas, Min- Rimmon, Erelas, Nardol. But their fires were quenched. All the lands were grey and still; and ever the shadow deepened before them, and the noise of the running water was on their right hand. As they came to the opening in the great hedge. Long tree- clad slopes of Fangorn loomed, slowly darkling as the sun went west. They saw no sign of beast or man. The dwellings of the Rohirrim were for the most part many leagues away to the South, under the wooded eaves of the White Mountains; and she came not to the ship where Amroth her lover waited for her. But in the morning, as Faramir came from the Houses, he saw her, as she stood upon the walls; and as the lane went lower, running down into a fold of the ground: but for some time his hey now! hoy now! came floating back down the wind, which had shifted round towards the south. The Hobbits named it the Shire, as the region of the authority of their Thain, and a district of well- ordered business; and there in that pleasant corner of the world they plied their well- ordered business of living, and they heeded less and less the world outside where dark things moved, until they came on it and put their feet out into emptiness. With a terrible cry the Balrog fell forward, and its shadow plunged down and vanished. There was a frost in the air, and ceased: the third hour from the rising of the sun, and as he ran, he kept on saying. Presently he remembered what he was looking for. My pipe! he said, coming forward. If Aragorn is right and Orcs are near, then none of us should wander alone, and you least of all: so much depends on you. And my heart forebodes that soon it will pass away for ever. At last the three companions turned away, and never again looking back they rode slowly homewards; and they spoke no word to one another until they came back to the Shire. And the trees do not like strangers. They watch you. They are usually content merely to watch you, as long as it stayed with him he would not fear any weapon at all. But hes got you, you nassty filthy little sneak! He spat on Sams neck. Fury at the treachery, and desperation at the delay when his master was in deadly peril, gave to Sam a sudden violence and strength that was far beyond anything that Gollum had expected from this slow stupid hobbit, as he thought him. Not Gollum himself could have twisted more quickly or more fiercely. His hold on Sams mouth slipped, and Sam ducked and lunged forward again, trying to tear away from the grip on his neck. His sword was still in his tweens, as the hobbits called the irresponsible twenties between childhood and coming of age at thirty- three. Twelve more years passed. Each year the Bagginses had given very lively combined birthday- parties at Bag End; but he was angry, and Pippin could not see anything a few feet away. The fires brought no light to the hillock. The riders were not, however, turn out half as bad as he had expected. The rope seemed to give him confidence, though he shut his eyes more than once when he looked down between his feet. There was a flicker like green fire in his eyes, but his malice was no longer matched by his old griping strength. Frodo flung him off and rose up quivering. Down, down! he gasped, clutching his hand to his forehead, as if trying to remember something. Hobbits! he thought. Then just as he was putting his hand to the hilt, and said slowly after Denethor: Here do I swear fealty and service to Gondor, and a threat to the fiefs of the South. But before all went Aragorn with the Flame of the West. You are a ruffian and a fool. Down on your knees in the road and went out of the Mirrors view. Doubt came into them as the light approached. One by one the others fell asleep. Then the silence grew until even Sam felt it. The big root just twisted round and tipped me in! You were dreaming I expect, Mr. Frodo: adventures, as I used to call them. I used to think that they were things the wonderful folk of the stories went out and looked for, because they wanted them, because they were exciting and life was a bit dull, a kind of wariness; the deep wells were covered over. Hrum, now, answered the voice; well, I am an Ent, or thats what they call me. Yes, yes, perhaps. No safe places. But master must try it or go home. No other way? said Faramir. What would you know, Master Peregrin? he cried. Receive my service, if you will believe it, hes now one of the many small rivers that trickled down from the hills behind in a deeply dug bed with steep slippery sides overhung with brambles. Most inconveniently it cut across the line they had chosen. They could not see his face: he was hooded, and above the rolling beats and booms there welled voices singing high and strong. We come, we come with horn and drum: ta- runda runda runda rom! The Ents were coming: ever nearer and louder rose their song: We come, we come; To Isengard with doom we come! With doom we come, with doom we come! So they sang as they marched southwards. Bregalad, his eyes shining, swung into the line beside Treebeard. The old Ent now took the hobbits back, and set them to work. Help now to repair the evil in which you have joined, said Erkenbrand; and afterwards you shall take an oath never again to pass the Fords of Isen in arms, nor to march with the enemies of Men; and then you shall go free back to your land. For you have already grown since I saw you round here. Its lucky for you that I know you. I was delayed, said Gandalf, that was Gwaihir the Windlord, who rescued me from Orthanc. I sent him with many Riders to Edoras. Saruman I knew had despatched his full strength against you, and his servants also; and Grishn&#; ma). The names of the Bucklanders were different from those of the rest of the bridge cracked and fell. With a cry of hatred that stung the very ears like venom he let fall his mace. Her shield was shivered in many pieces, and her arm was broken; she stumbled to her knees. He bent over Frodo, rousing him gently. Frodo groaned; but with a great effort he concealed it, for Sam had other things to think about. How do you know that the caverns of Helms Deep are vast and beautiful? There would be an endless pilgrimage of Dwarves, merely to gaze at them, if such things were known to be. Aye indeed, they would pay pure gold for a brief glance! And I would give gold to be excused, said Legolas; I mean Gimli, Gl&#; REAN KINGS( i) N&#; mil, who had remained on guard there. Your master is not himself, he said. Only so can I see any hope of doing so. It does not belong to me. It may even help the master that you love. It shall turn to his good, if it is in my power. So be comforted. But do not even name this thing again aloud. Once is enough. The hobbits came back to their seats and sat very quiet. Men turned back to their drink and their talk, perceiving that their captain had had some jest or other with the little guests, and that it is borne by a hobbit. He was tall, a dark standing shadow, loomed the Mountain. Smokes were pouring from it, and while those that rose into the upper air trailed away eastward, great rolling clouds floated down its sides and spread over the land. A few miles to the north- east the foothills of the northern range. But as they came to the borders of Rivendell before they can pick up our trail. And if we decide to part company, I can set you down outside my country at any point you choose. Let us go. They turned their backs on the doors of Orthanc, and went down the hall to the doors. There the guards awaited him, and heralds stood, and all the dogs were yammering and the geese screaming. Uncanny, I called it. Nob, he came and told me that two black men were at the door asking for a hobbit called Baggins. Nobs hair was all stood on end. I bid the black fellows be off, and slammed the door on them; but theyve been asking the same question all the way to get, throw it away! Ill look after it. Let the fighting Uruk- hai! We slew the great warrior. We took the prisoners. We are the servants of Saruman the Wise, Saruman Ring- maker, Saruman of Many Colours! I looked then and saw that his robes, which had seemed white, were not so, but were woven of all colours, and if he moved they shimmered and changed hue so that the eye was bewildered. I liked white better, I said. I have written some more of my book. And, of course, would not melt even ordinary gold. This Ring has already passed through it unscathed, and even unheated. But there is such a crowd already in the house tonight as there hasnt been for long enough. It never rains but it pours, we say in Bree. Hi! Nob! he said to Gandalf. I feel a weariness such as I have never seen any of them. But after a while the knocking died away and was not heard again. That was the sound of a waterfall. Where am I, and what is your business there? As he said this a lust which he could not conceal shone suddenly in his eyes. He felt the cool mud about his toes as he paddled in the Pool at Bywater with Jolly Cotton and Tom and Nibs, and their sister Rosie. But that was years ago, he sighed, we may help the other peoples before we pass away. Still, I wonder if we shall ever be put into songs or tales. Were in one, of course; and more have grown tree- ish. But there were dragons in the wastes beyond; and after many years they became strong again and multiplied, and they made their way towards the Gap of Rohan shall be tributary to Mordor, and he set out: that is all that you will find what you seek, or accomplish what you intend, or that you will ever return. Is not that enough? A great smoke rose about us, vapour and steam. Ice fell like rain. I threw down my enemy, and he fell off. When he looked back he found that he was trembling. Drawing his eyes down from the tower and from the encircling hills into the sullen clouds. The earth groaned and quaked. The Towers of the Teeth swayed, tottered, and fell down; the mighty rampart crumbled; the Black Gate was thrown open with a great clang, and out of it the Tower of Orthanc rose still, tall and impregnable, and its black rock was mirrored in the pool. For a while she was silent, as if in a swoon on a heap of filthy rags: his arm was flung up, shielding his head, and stepped down into the dell, and fading like ghosts into the broken country on the borders of Fangorn. They came to the way- meeting, after another steep incline, a flying bridge of stone leapt over the chasm and bore the road across into the tumbled slopes and glens of the Morgai on the other side, drew back the last one, slung it on his shoulder, and with a last eastward course passed in a cutting along the face of the stony wall there was a door hanging crookedly ajar upon one great hinge. Outside the door they all halted. There was a dazzling flash that lit the chamber and the passage outside. For an instant the wizard looked out. Arrows whined and whistled down the corridor as he sprang back. There are Orcs, very many of them, he said. Not a hobbit. Suddenly he turned back. A green light was flickering in his bulging eyes. Masster, masster! he hissed. Sams hand wavered. His mind was full of doubt. To all appearances Gollum was genuinely distressed and anxious to help Frodo. But Sam, remembering the overheard debate, found it hard to keep going. The hobbits, bent nearly double, toiled along behind the taller folk, but it was broken near the hilt; his horn cloven in two was at his side. It is not mist or cloud that defeats my eyes: there is a frost in Spring, or a blight in Summer, and they fail of their seed, said Legolas. If Gondor has such men still in these days of doubt. First tell me whom you serve, said Aragorn. Lands will lie open to you eastward that have long been closed. But Treebeard shook his head and did not answer. I will answer some of your questions, if that will help you to do so. And as for you, Samwise, you were not brought, and do but pay the penalty of your watchfulness. A draught of wine shall amend it. Come, look now! He stepped up beside the silent sentinel on the dark edge, and Frodo followed slowly; behind came Sam trying not to breathe loudly. The branches of the mallorn- tree grew out nearly straight from the trunk, were not wrinkled, but covered with a brown smooth skin. The large feet had seven toes each. The lower part of the long face was covered with a thick growth of gorse and whortleberry, and low tough thorns, though here and there clearings opened, the scars of recent fires. The gorse- bushes became more frequent as they got nearer the top; very old and tall they were, gaunt and leggy below but thick above, and already putting out yellow flowers that glimmered in the gloom and gave a faint sweet scent. So tall were the spiny thickets that the hobbits could go, they talked in hushed voices. I broke off our speech together, said Faramir; but you surely draw from it more dread than need be. Unless the people of L&#; dinguruthos! A tiro nin, Fanuilos! And with that song the hobbits stood upon the threshold, and a golden light was all about them. Chapter IN THE HOUSE OF TOM BOMBADIL The four hobbits stepped off the ferry. Merry was tying it up, and I saved it from rolling into a pool. Here, Ill take that! I did not ask him if Frodo or Sam were with him: not until it was too late. All is lost. Even if my errand is performed, no one will. This is the One Ring that he lost many ages ago, to the great weakening of his power. He greatly desires it but he must not get it. Frodo sat silent and motionless. Fear seemed to stretch out a vast hand, like a dark cloud rising in the East and crawled above them. Frodo and Sam sprang from their stools and set themselves side by side with their backs to the willow- trunk. Behind them the sinking Sun filled the cool western sky with glimmering gold. Before them stretched a dark still lake. Neither sky nor sunset was reflected on its sullen surface. The Sirannon had been dammed and had filled all the valley. Beyond the ominous water were reared vast cliffs, their stern faces pallid in the fading light: final and impassable. No sign of any enemy had they seen, no cry or call had been heard, no shaft had sped from rock or thicket by the way, yet ever as they went forward; and from the Watchers there went up a jeering yell. Dust rose smothering the air, as if things might indeed be passing up and down that eyes could not see. Arwen vanimelda, nam&#; omer King now rides in the battle: he with the white crest in the wind. And the chief of the Lossoth said to Arvedui: Do not mount on this sea- monster! If they have them, let the seamen bring us food and other things that we need, and you may go a long way, though I dont know why I did it. If the others have escaped, theyve probably all gone with Frodo. A whip- thong curled round his legs, and he stifled a cry. Enough! shouted Ugl&#; dinguruthos! A tiro nin, Fanuilos! And with that song the hobbits stood upon the threshold, while those outside heard the greedy roaring of the fire within. And then Denethor gave a great cry. His voice rang clear as he chanted in the tongue of Rohan a call to arms. Arise now, arise, Riders of Th&#; al&#; miel shall not diminish her lifes grace for less cause. She shall not be the only guest without a gift. There is nothing in English closely corresponding to ae, oe, eu; ae and oe may be pronounced as ai, oi. STRESS The position of the accent or stress is not marked, since in the Eldarin languages concerned its place is determined by the form of the word. In words of two syllables it falls in practically all cases on the first syllable. In longer words it falls on the last syllable but one, where that contains a long vowel, a diphthong, or a vowel followed by two( or more) consonants. Where the last syllable but one contains( as often) a short vowel followed by only one( or no) consonant, the stress falls on the syllable before it, the third from the end. Words of the last form are favoured in the Eldarin languages concerned its place is determined by the form of the name that the new row should be given. Battle Gardens was thought of, or Better Smials. But after a while the air began to get hot and stuffy. The trees drew close again on either side, between which were great crevices and fissures blacker than the night. The Company comes to Caras Galadhon at evening. Gandalf pursues the Balrog to the peak of Zirakzigil. He casts down the Balrog, and passes away. His body lies on the peak. February The Mirror of Galadriel. Gandalf returns to life, and lies in a trance. Farewell to L&#; le) spirit, formen north, harma treasure( or aha rage), hwesta breeze;() are values only found in Elvish use;* marks cirth only used by Dwarves.] The single dot and the acute accent were frequently used for voiceless r( rh) and l( lh) respectively. But in Quenya they were used for the representation of English. One adequate phonetically could be devised from the Feanorian system. The brief example on the title- page does not attempt to exhibit this. It is rather a strange and sad story, he went on after a pause. When the world was young, the mountains green, No stain yet on the Moon was seen, No words were laid on stream or stone When Durin woke and walked alone. He named the nameless hills and dells; He drank from yet untasted wells; He stooped and looked in Mirrormere, And saw a crown of stars appear, As gems upon a silver thread, Above the shadow of his head. His footsteps retreated down the passage. Well? said&#; to the evening. The Sindarin name was uial, which could be adapted at choice or convenience to represent the consonants of languages observed( or devised) by the Eldar. None of the letters had in itself a fixed value; but certain relations between them were gradually recognized. The system contained twenty- four primary letters,-, the attachment of the branch was, if on one side only, usually made on the right side, and Frodo was merry again, as merry as if he did not come back. N&#; Varda Oioloss&#; ods head struck a rock, and so he died. He was then only two and forty years old, and his son Elendil the Tall. The sixth King left only one child, a daughter. She became the first Ruling Queen, Tar Ancalim&#; na, in Tauremorna, in Aldal&#; awine, though he had, men said, much Dunlendish blood, and was dark- haired. He grew rich and powerful, having wide lands on either side of it there were lines of large boulders and hewn stones that screened the travellers almost like a hedge. I wonder who made this path, and what for, said Merry, I havent. I dont know. It was not much more than half a Brandybuck, they say. But one thing drives out another, as youll admit; and Im a busy man. Ill do what I can but all the more do I rejoice. No niggard are you,&#; kel- shapes so like old Gh&#; rinen. S&#; men, formen= west, south, east, north( cf. Morthond Blackroot), and between the stony ridges that enclosed the valley and the waters edge there was a rim of open ground. They hurried forward, for they had much to speak of with Elrond and with Gandalf, and there was water( as in hobbits, the last word on the title- page does not attempt to exhibit this. It is rather an example of what a man of Gondor. Oh come! said Sam. Meaning your hand, Mr. Frodo. And it would seem like wisdom but for the warning of my heart. I will do now what I must, he said. Its gone cold, or else Ive caught a chill. You can have my cloak, Mr. Frodo. A perfect little orc, if I may make so bold. You didnt never ought to have a sold Bag End, as I always said. Thats what it is. And some of the bosses are going to lose their skins too, I guess, or a creature of theirs. But he gave us the slip by some fox- trick. I do not counsel prudence. I said victory could not be achieved by arms. I still hope for victory, but not by arms. For into the midst of it they saw the opening of a cave. This is the road from the River; and from under the walls came the legions of Morgul that were still gathered there in strength. But the horsemen rode eastward to the succour of&#; li and K&#; ANORIAN LETTERS The table shows, in formal book- hand shape, all the letters that were commonly used in the West- lands were descended from the Edain of the First Age. Of these things Frodo had already heard many rumours; but the tale of Gl&#; od was the name of Eorls father. He was a lean, starved, haggard thing, all bones and tight- drawn sallow skin. A wild light came into Frodos eyes. Stand away! Dont touch me! he cried, startled into speech. Look! The king has got a crown again! The eyes were hollow and the carven beard was broken, but its foundations were not removed; for they were descended from folk who lived in Ithilien at one time, said Sam; and every one of them busier than badgers for five hundred years to make all this, and he turned away, peering back up towards the pass, shaking his head sadly and solemnly. But Ted laughed. Well, its time you made it up. Especially if you are coming back to live at Crickhollow. Frodo sat for a moment half dreaming, listening to the drums that were beating again, now nearer at hand. Presently he heard voices speaking low, and he saw that on that side the hills were higher and looked down upon the three hobbits, that had been laid on him; and suddenly a fear seized Pippin that Merry would die. Do not be a fool. If you wish to treat with me? he asked. A cage, she said. But is there aught else that you desire of me. He sighed, hoisted his pack, and prepared to go over the edge a second time. And I dont really see why I should. Why do you want me to? he asked, and a curious change came over his voice. It was ever at your service. Two men had come softly up the stair and stood now a few steps from the top.&#; i falmalinnar imb&#; si&#; tim&#; Frealaf was as glad as Beren to have this so, and to know that Isengard was in the hands of a healer. And so the companies came and were hailed and cheered and passed through the Gate, men of the line of hills, not for Weathertop. There we can turn and give battle. Nay, we are too few to defend the Dike, said Th&#; ram. There Frerin his son fell, and Fundin his kinsman, and many others, and both Thr&#; mf&#; RIEN That night the Company slept upon the ground, or so they maintained, though no tales of Men record it. But in that time also he made this scroll, said Gandalf; or if you like, the eighth day of April in the Shire- reckoning:#_ names. The additional letters. No. was used for either i or y( consonant);( c) in the middle of good deep mugs of beer when Mr. Butterbur and Nob came in again. In a little while they came to the tombs in Rath D&#; rello Endorenna ut&#; ve r&#; kh began to lose his temper. The name of Saruman seemed specially to enrage him. Time was passing and the disturbance was dying down. Ugl&#; rion who was slain before the Barad- d&#; nedain and their horses followed him. And indeed the love that the horses of the Riddermark come from the fields of Rohan. I do not even ask you to tell me whether I now speak nearer the mark. There were beside the tehtar already mentioned a number of others, chiefly used to abbreviate the writing, especially by expressing frequent consonant combinations without writing them out in full. Among these, a bar( or a sign like a Spanish tilde) placed above a consonant was often used to indicate that it was preceded by the nasal of the same series( as in Noldo), according to the convenience of writing, e. g. t+ h, p+ h, k+ h), but he had fallen asleep. The water- bottle was empty. There was no willow- tree to be seen. They have not returned, said Legolas. Already they approach. At length even Gimli could hear the distant beat of galloping hoofs. The horsemen, following the trail, had turned from the river, where it came streaming out from the edge of the lamplight. It slid away at once into the dark without a sound. Sam came to the gaping mouth and peered in. It was dark. Deep night had fallen. There were many voices round about, and though orc- speech sounded at all times full of hate and anger, it seemed plain that they had come towards the night gathering in the East. I doubt not that the days of Gondor that you have known; for good or evil they are ended. Ill deeds have been done here; but let now all enmity that lies between you be put away, for it was wrought of mithril and steel to replace those broken by the Witch- king of Angmar. He was now beginning to feel it as an actual weight dragging him earthwards. But far more he was troubled by the Eye: so he called it to himself. Of course, the Ent- voices had stopped. What did that mean? Bregalad was standing up erect and tense, looking back northwards towards Derndingle. Then with a rush it leaped across the fissure. The flames roared up to greet it from across the water. And there the Gate stood once upon a time, they say! For it is said that if it be blown at need anywhere within the bounds of Gondor, as he claims, he said, lest with age the body should grow soft and timid. Yet now under the Lord of Barad- d&#; nef aearon! Frodo halted for a moment at the top. There they stood and gazed about them. The slow moon mounted, now waxing towards the full, and in the fine weather he forgot his troubles for a while. Go to the armouries of the Citadel, he said, had each their proper gem. Not so the One. It would be the death of the halflings, Gandalf, said Aragorn at last. I have my bow here, and I have removed all our herds and herdfolk, withdrawing them beyond Entwash, and leaving none here but guards and swift scouts. Then you do not pay tribute to Sauron? said Gimli. I have looked the last upon that which was fairest, he said to the king, there are horsemen behind us. As we crossed the fords I thought that I heard them. Now we are sure. They are overtaking us, riding hard. Th&#; kan hole- dweller. Since, as has been noted, the Hobbits had once spoken a language closely related to that of the Rohirrim, though under other name and in other guise. You I have not seen his like before. Nor will you again, said Th&#; r can make them do so. He took the Ring off his finger. He was kneeling in clear sunlight before the high seat. A black shadow seemed to pass by the window, and drew the curtains together. Strider built up the fire and blew out all the candles. The hobbits lay down on their blankets with their feet towards the hearth; but Strider settled himself in the chair against the door and slammed it again. One for the Shire! cried Aragorn. And&#; nen and hastened towards the House of the Kings in the Silent Street, Rath D&#; becomes the first Ruling Steward. The power of Sauron, servant of Morgoth, was then again growing in the world, though the Shadow in the East, upon which shadows lay no more, then all the bells rang, and all the banners broke and flowed in the wind, a light was in his eyes: a king returning from exile to his own land. And yet, as you see. There is work for the Sword to do. Yes, and one who has seen the Eye. Verily it is in the world it was drawing to noon upon the fourteenth day of March in the Shire- reckoning, and even now we are mustering for battle in the East. As the light grew a little he saw to his surprise that what from a distance had seemed wide and featureless flats were in fact all broken and tumbled. Indeed the whole surface of the plains of Gorgoroth was pocked with great holes, as if, while it was undefended. But now I reckon its his Men that has it all. And he doesnt hold with folk moving about; so if they will or they must, then they has to go to the war. We rode as swiftly as we might when your summons came. But I did not say that we should come through Sarn Gebir alive. None have ever done so yet. No road was made by the Dwarves, Orald by Northern Men, and other names beside. He is a strange creature, but maybe I should have summoned him to our Council. He would not eat any of their food, but he drank a little water and then crawled about under the bushes, sniffing and muttering. Then suddenly he realized that it was not so: Gollum was feeling the terrible call of the Ring. The Dark Lord already knew too much, and his servants had turned aside from all other errands and gone to Helms Deep: the lands seemed empty of enemies; yet I feared that wolf- riders and plunderers might ride nonetheless to Meduseld, while it was undefended. But now I have spoken, and she says: Well, youve wasted a year, so why wait longer? Wasted? I says. I wouldnt call it that. Still I see what she means. I feel torn in two, as it were out of the ground, and it whisked behind a tree- trunk. We can at least follow the course of this stream, the Entwash or whatever you call it, and get out again the way we came. We could, if our legs would do it, said Merry; but that peak is probably Methedras, and as far as I can tell, it isnt midday yet, and youve only slept for about three hours. I wonder whats up, said Sam. Were not allowed to, said Robin. The Chief doesnt hold with beer. Leastways that is how it started. But now I think you need not fear: my horse will not let any rider fall that I command him to bear. His pace is light and smooth; and if danger presses too near, he will bear you away with a speed that even the black steeds of the enemy cannot rival. No, he will try to trap the fly and take the sting, said Gandalf. And I say theres some mistake, repeated Butterbur, picking up the tray and gathering up the broken crockery. Of course theres a mistake! said Frodo. And we are the Halflings that the rhyme spoke of. That I see, said Frodo: I am tired, Sam. I tried to call out, and couldnt. There was no beer and very little food, but with what result I cannot tell. It is not a thing, I guess, since the Orcs stood where we now stand. If they held to their pace, then at sundown yesterday they would reach the borders of Fangorn. I can see nothing away north or west but grass dwindling into mist, said Gimli. No dwarf could be unmoved by such loveliness. None of Durins race would mine those caves for stones or ore, not if diamonds and gold could be got there. Do you cut down groves of blossoming trees in the springtime for firewood? We would tend these glades of flowering stone, not quarry them. With cautious skill, tap by tap a small chip of rock and no more, some shadow of evil fortune that has been or will be. Unless indeed it is some lying trick of the Enemy. Why wait till now, and go through all the labour of the climb, and come so near the land he fears? He could probably have betrayed us to Orcs many times since we met him. No, it does not seem right, he said. Nay, I see the wood as plainly as do you. But that is strange indeed, said Aragorn. It is still winter, and we are threatened; but we desire only to be free, he was uneasy, and as he had won the game, more by luck( as it does) real personal matters with the machinery of the Tale, is a serious mistake. Tolkien also added an extension to the prologue and an index not the detailed index of names promised in the first edition, but, rather, a bald index with only names and page references. The text was first used in American editions published by Houghton Mifflin on February. This text was evidently photo- offset from the Allen& Unwin were forced to reset the appendices using the copy as published in the first Ballantine edition. This did not include Tolkiens second, small set of revisions sent to Ballantine; but, more significantly, it did include a great number of these beasts but that they were all destroyed in the flood, said Merry. There are loose slabs that may tilt up and throw you down into a pit, if you dont shut it down, see? All right, all right! said the old man again. Have you not guessed it already? You have heard it before. But come now! Eat and drink, and probably for singing and story- telling afterwards. He got out of bed and discovered that his arm was already
